For Geoff Tate's version of the band, see
Queensrche
.

The band originally started in 1981 as The Mob, and their line-up consisted of guitarists
Chris DeGarmo
and
Michael Wilton
, bassist
Eddie Jackson
and drummer
Scott Rockenfield
. Vocalist
Geoff Tate
was in another local band, Myth (and upon his departure was replaced by Razor Baby singer Brent Young).  Tate had performed with The Mob on a few occasions, and was asked to join the band for the EP recording sessions. After leaving Myth, Geoff became a full-time member of The Mob, and the band changed their name to Queensrche towards the end of 1982.

Queensrche kept their original line-up until their 1997 album "Hear in the Now Frontier", after which guitarist Chris DeGarmo left the band. He contributed to their 2003 album "Tribe", but never rejoined.


Kelly Gray
is more well-known for being a producer for non-metal bands than his time in Queensrche (although he did a widely-panned job of producing
Nevermore
's 2003 "Enemies of Reality" album).

Queensrche were briefly detained in Amsterdam on 11/06/2006 for being suspected of secretly bringing a firearm into the country - it was, in fact, only a prop used in their stageshow.

In 2012, Michael Wilton, Eddie Jackson and Scott Rockenfield, along with live guitarist Parker Lundgren, formed a band called Rising West with
Crimson Glory
singer Todd LaTorre to perform lesser-heard Queensrche songs from the band's early days.

After a couple of shows as Rising West they fired Geoff Tate from Queensrche and announced they would be continuing with LaTorre and Lundgren as permanent members.

In response, Tate assembled a line-up featuring Queensrche alumnus Kelly Gray as well as
Rudy Sarzo
,
Bobby Blotzer
and
Glen Drover
(who swiftly departed without playing any shows), and also performed as Queensrche until April 2014, when the legal battle over the rights to the band's name was resolved. As part of the agreement, Tate now has exclusive rights to perform the two "Operation: Mindcrime" albums onstage in their entirety, but will no longer record or perform as Queensrche.
